some birds build nests not just as
cradles for their eggs chicks but as
lodging houses for the whole year here
in Namibia in southern Africa lives the
sociable weaver and very sociable
it is - as many as three or four hundred
birds will live in a single apartment
block this haystack may be more than a
century oh it's so heavy that part of it
has broken the branch that supported it
and fallen to the ground and it's been
built and maintained as a common effort
by all the inhabitants Weaver's are
closely related to sparrows though some
of their relations do indeed weave the
sociable Weaver builds in a rather
simple way it just pushes straws one by
one into this gigantic bale a large
communal apartment block has a
considerable advantage over small
isolated nests when you live in a desert
like this during the day it gets
ferociously hot but that thick roof of
thatch keeps the apartments beneath nice
and cool
as the Sun sets The Weavers having been
away feeding come back to their homes at
night it can get very cold in the desert
as much as seven or eight degrees below
freezing and then the fetch is probably
at its most valuable because it acts as
insulation for the nest chambers so that
they retain much of the heat that they
had during the day and the birds that
list inside remain snug and warm not all
the chambers are for nesting some are
not nurseries but bedrooms in which
several of the colonies snuggle together
for warmth